Hello, I'm Andrew Maine and this is the
OpenAI podcast. In this episode, we're
going to speak with OpenAI co-founder
and president Greg Brockman and Codeex
engineering lead Tibo Such and we're
going to talk about Agenta coding GPD5
codecs and where things might be heading
in 2030.
>> Just bet that the greater intelligence
will pan out in the in the long run. uh
and it's just really optimized for you
know what people are using uh GP5 within
codeex for
>> how do you make sure that that AI is
producing things that are actually
correct.
>> We're here to talk about codeex which
first I've been using it um since
actually since I worked here the first
version of this and then now you guys
have the new version of this. I was
playing with it all weekend long and
I've been very very impressed by this
and is amazing how far this technology
has come in a few years. I would love to
find out the early story like where did
the idea of even using a language model
to code come from?
>> Well, I mean I remember back in the GPD3
days seeing the very first signs of life
of take a dock string and a Python
definition of a function name and then
watching the model complete the code.
>> And as soon as you saw that you knew
this is going to work. This is going to
be big. And I remember at some point we
were talking about these aspirational
goals of imagine if you could have a
language model that would write a
thousand lines of coherent code, right?
That was like a big goal for us. And the
thing that's kind of wild is that that
goal has come and passed. And I think
that we don't think twice about it,
right? I think that while you're
developing this technology, you really
just see the holes, the flaws, the
things that don't work. Um, but every so
often it's good to like step back and
realize that like actually things have
just like come so far. It's incredible
how used we get to things improving all
the time and how they just become like a
a daily driver and you just use it every
day and then you reflect back to like a
month ago this wasn't even possible. Um
and this just continues to happen. I
think that's quite fascinating like how
quickly humans adapt to new things.
>> Now now one of the struggles that we've
always had is the question of whether to
go deep in a domain
>> right because we're really here for the
G right for AGI general intelligence.
And so to first order, our instinct is
just push on making all the capabilities
better at once. Coding's always been the
exception to that, right? We we really
have a very different program that we
use to focus on coding data, on code
metrics, on trying to really understand
how do our models perform on code. Um,
and that, you know, we've started to do
that in other domains too, but but for
programming and coding that that's been
like a very exceptional focus for us.
And you know for GPD4 we really produced
a single model that was just a leap on
all fronts. Um, but we actually had
trained, you know, the codeex model and
I remember doing like a Python sort of
focused model like we were really really
trying to to push the level of coding
capability back in you know 2021 or so
and uh you know I remember when we did
the codeex demo that was maybe the first
demonstration of what we'd call vibe
coding today right I remember building
this interface and having this
realization that for just standard
language model stuff the interface the
harness is so simple right you're just
completing a thing and you know maybe
there's a follow-up turn or something
like that but but that's it for coding
that you actually this text comes to
life right you need to execute it that
it needs to be hooked up to tools all
these things and so you realize that the
harness is almost like equally part of
how you make this model usable as the
intelligence and so that is that is
something that I think we we kind of
knew from that moment um and it's been
interesting to see as we got to more
capable models this year and really
started to focus on not just making the
raw capability like how do you win at
programming competitions But how do you
make it useful? Right. Training in a
diversity of environments, really
connecting to how people are going to
use it and then really building the
harness which is something that have
really pushed hard.
>> Could you unpack like a harness what
that means in sort of simple terms?
>> Yes, it's quite simple. You have the
model and the model is just capable of
input output and what we call the
harness is how do we integrate that with
the rest of the infrastructure so that
the model can actually act on its
environment.
>> Uh so it's the set of tools, it's the
way that it's uh looping. So the agent
loop as we refer to it as the agent loop
and um it's in in essence it's fairly
simple but when you start to integrate
these pieces together and really train
it end to end you start to see like
pretty magical behavior uh and an
ability of the model to really act and
create things on your behalf and be a
true collaborator.
>> So think about it a little bit as you
know the harness being your body and the
model being your brain.
>> Okay. It it is it's interesting to see
like yeah how far it came like GPD3 days
where you literally had to write like
you know uh commented code and say like
this function does this with its Python
put your hashtag in front of that
whatever and it's just interesting to
see how the models have now become just
naturally intuitively good at coding and
you mentioned that you know trying to
determine between a general purpose
model or saying how important code is.
Was it just outside demand? People
telling you wanted these models to
better code or was this coming
internally because you guys wanted to
use this more?
>> Both.
>> Yeah,
>> absolutely both. And I remember, you
know, in I think 2022 is when we worked
with GitHub to produce GitHub copilot.
>> And the thing that was very interesting
there was that for the first time you
really felt what is it like to have an
AI in the middle of your coding workflow
and how can it accelerate you? And I
remember that there were a lot of
questions around the exact right
interface. Do you want ghost text so it
just does a completion? Do you want a
little drop down with a bunch of
different possibilities? Um, but one
thing that was very clear was latency
was a product feature and that the
constraint for something like an
autocomplete is that 1500 milliseconds,
right? That's like the time that you
have to produce a completion. Anything
is slower than that, it could be
incredibly brilliant. No one wants to
sit around waiting for it. And so the
the mandate that we had, the clear
signal we had from from users and from
you know the product managers and all
the all the people thinking about the
product side of it is get the smartest
model you can subject to the latency
constraint.
>> And then you have something like GBD4
which much much smarter but it's not
going to hit your latency budget. What
do you do? Is it a useless model? Like
absolutely not. The thing you have to do
is you change the harness. You change
the interface. And I think that that's
like a really important theme is you
need to kind of co-evolve the interfaces
and the way that you use the model
around its affordances. And so super
fast smart models is going to be great,
but the incredibly smart but slower
models, it's also worth it. And I think
that we've always had a thesis that the
um you know that the returns on that
intelligence are worth it. And it's
never obvious in the moment because
you're just like, well, it's just going
to be too slow. Why would anyone want to
use it? But I think that our approach
has very much been to say just bet that
the greater intelligence will pan out in
the in the long run.
>> It was it was hard for me to wrap my
head around where that was all headed
back when working on the GitHub co-pilot
because at that point we're used to like
you said the completion ask do a thing
it completes a thing. And I think I
didn't really understand how much more
value you would get out of building a
harness added adding all these
capabilities there. And it just seemed
like all you just need is the model. But
now you realize the tooling everything
else matters can make such a big
difference. And then you brought up the
idea of modalities. And now we have um
CLI codec cli. So I can go to the
command line. I can do this. There's a
plugin for VS code. So I can go use this
there. And then also I can deploy stuff
to the web and do that. And I don't
think I've fully kind of comprehend the
value of that. And so like how is this
something you're using? How are you kind
of deploying these things yourself? Like
where are you finding the most you know
utility out of it?
I think just to go back a little bit on
like the first signs that we saw is like
we had a lot of developers at the
company outside of the company like our
users use chat GPT to help them debug
like very complex problems and one thing
that we clearly saw like people are
trying to get more and more context into
chat GPT and you're trying to get bits
of your code and stack traces and things
and then you paste that and you present
that to a very smart model to get some
help. Uh and interactions were starting
to get more and more complex up to some
point where we realized like hey maybe
instead of the user driving this thing
maybe let the model actually drive the
interaction and find its own context and
then find its way and be able to debug
you know this hard problem by itself so
that you can just sit back and you know
watch the model do the work. So it's
like sort of like reversing that
interaction that um you know led to this
I think u thinking a lot more about the
harness and giving the model the ability
to act
>> and we we iterated on form factors right
I mean I remember at the beginning of
the year we had a couple of different
approaches we had you know sort of the
async agentic harness but we also had
the local experience and a couple
different implementations of it and uh
yeah
>> we we actually started to play a little
bit with this idea of like running it in
the terminal. Um, and then we felt that
was not AGI pled enough. Uh, we needed
the ability to run this at scale and
remotely and just close a laptop and
have,
>> you know, the agent to just like
continue to do its work and then you can
maybe follow it on your phone and
interact with it there. That seemed like
very cool. So, we pushed on that, but we
actually had a prototype of it fully
working in a terminal. And um, people
were using that productively at OpenAI.
We decided to not uh launch this as a
product. it didn't feel like polished
enough. It was called 10x uh because we
felt like it was giving us this 10x
productivity boost. But then we decided
to like you know just experiment with
different form factors and like really
go all in with the async form factor
initially and now we've kind of gone
back a little bit of that and reevolved
and said like hey actually this agent we
can bring it back to your terminal. We
can bring it in your ID. But the thing
that we're really trying to get right is
like this entity, this collaborator
that's working with you and then
bringing that to you in in the tools
that you're already using as a
developer.
>> Yeah. And there were other shots on goal
as well, right? So we had a version
where there was a remote demon that
would connect to uh to a local agent and
so you kind of could could uh could get
both at once. And I think that part of
the the evolution has been that there's
almost this matrix of different ways you
could try to deploy a tool, right?
There's this like async, it has its own
computer off in the cloud. There's the
local that it's running synchronously
there. Um, you can blend between these.
Um, that there's a question of, you
know, there's been a question for us of
how much do we focus on trying to build
something that is externalizable, right?
that is like useful in the diversity of
environments that people have out there
versus really focus on our own
environment and try to make it so that
things work really well for our internal
engineers. And one of the challenges has
been we want to kind of do all of this,
right? We ultimately want tools that are
useful to everyone, but if you can't
even make it useful for yourself, how
are you going to make it extremely
useful for everyone else? And so part of
the challenge for us has been really
figuring out where do we focus and like
how do we achieve the the sort of
biggest bang for the buck in terms of of
of our engineering efforts. And you know
for me one of the things that's been an
overarching focus has been we know that
coding and building very capable agents
is one of the most important things that
we can do this year. Um at the beginning
of the year we set a company goal of an
agentic software engineer by the end of
the year and figuring out exactly what
that means and how to instantiate that
and how to bring together all the
opportunity and all the the kind of
compute that we have to bear on this
problem like that has been a great
undertaking for many many people at
OpenAI.
>> So you mentioned that you had the tool
10X and that was an internal tool and
that seemed to be something at some
point you said oh this is really useful
to other people. It's got to be hard to
decide when to do that and when not to
and how much to sort of prioritize that.
You know, we've seen cloud code has
become extremely powerful, which I
imagine is probably a similar story with
something that was used internally and
then became something deployed. When you
start to think about next steps of, you
know, where do you decide to take it
next? Where do you decide to put the
emphasis? You know, you mentioned
before, you know, I can now run things
in the cloud, run these web, you know,
do these kind of agentic like tasks
where I walk away. And my problem is
just it's such a new modality. It's
really really hard for me to think about
and but sometimes these things have to
sit around for a while and people sort
of discover them independently and have
you found that internally that somebody
says oh now I get it.
>> I say absolutely right and I think that
you know my perspective is that we kind
of know the shape of the future right of
the long term. It is very clear that
you're going to want an AI that has its
own computer that is able to run you
know delegate to a fleet of agents and
be able to to solve multiple tasks in
parallel. you should wake up in the
morning, you're sipping your coffee, you
know, answering questions for your
agent, like providing some review, being
like, "Ah, no, this wasn't quite what I
meant." Um, this workflow clearly needs
to happen,
but the models aren't quite smart enough
for this to be the way that you interact
with them.
>> And so having an agent that is really
there in your terminal, in your editor
to help you with the way that you do
your your work that looks very similar
to the way you would have done it a year
ago. that's also the present. And so I
think that the the way that we've seen
it is almost we're blurring together
here's what the future looks like, but
we also can't abandon the present and
thinking about how do you bring AI into
code review and how do you make it so
that it appears proactively and does
work for you that's useful. Um and then
you have a whole new challenge as well
of if you have a lot more PRs like how
do you actually sort through those to
the ones that are that are the ones you
actually want to merge. And so I think
we've kind of seen all of this
opportunity space and we've seen people
start to change how they develop within
OpenAI, how they even structure their
code bases.
>> Yeah, I think there are two things to
that affect that really combined. Um,
and I mean, you know, this is where
we're at today. It's one, infrastructure
is hard and we would love for, you know,
all all of everyone's code and like
tests and packages to be like perfectly
containerizable and so we can run them
at scale. That's not the case. like uh
people have very thorough and complex
setups that probably only runs on their
laptop and we want to be able to
leverage that and meet you know people
where they are so that you know they
don't have to configure things
specifically for codecs that gives you
this very easy entry point uh into
experiencing you know what a very
powerful coding agent can do for you and
this also at the same time lets us
experiment with you know what the right
interfaces uh six months ago we weren't
playing with these kinds of tools and
this is all very new and evolving fast
and we have to continue to iterate here
and innovate on like what the right
interface and what the right um way to
collaborate with these agents are and we
don't feel like we have really nailed
that yet. That's going to continue to
evolve. But bringing it uh to like a
zero setup, extremely easy to use out of
the box, you know, allows a lot more
people to benefit from it and like play
with it and for us to get the feedback
so that we can continue to innovate.
That's very important. I remember at the
beginning of the year talking to one of
our engineers who I think is is really
fantastic and he was saying that chatbt
we had this integration where it could
automatically see the context in this
terminal and he's like it's
transformative because he doesn't have
to like copy paste errors he just like
can instantly be like hey like you know
what's what's the bug and it would just
tell him and it was great right and you
realize that it was an integration that
we built that was so transformative
wasn't about a smarter model
>> and I I think that one thing that's very
easy to get confused by is to really
focus on only one of these dimensions
and be like which one matters because
the answer is they kind of both matter
and the way I've always thought about
this I remember when we were originally
releasing the API back in 2020 um is
there's two dimensions to what makes an
AI desirable. There's intelligence which
you can think of as one access and then
there's convenience which you can think
of as latency you could think of as cost
you could think of as um the
integrations available to it and there's
some acceptance region right where it's
like if the model's incredibly smart but
it takes you like a month to run it or
something like you still might right if
what kind of output is such a valuable
piece of code or you know cure for a
certain disease or something like that
okay fine like it's worthwhile if the
model's incredibly not that intelligent
not that capable, then all you want to
do is autocomplete. So it has to be
incredibly convenient, zero cognitive
tax for you to think about what it's
suggesting, that kind of thing. And
where we are is of course somewhere on
the spectrum now. We now have smarter
models that are, you know, reasonably
less convenient than autocomplete, but
still like more convenient than you have
to sit around and wait for a month for
for for the answer to appear. And so I
think that a lot of our challenge is
figuring out when do you invest in
pulling that convenience to the left?
when do you invest in pushing the the
intelligence up and it's a massive
design space is what makes it fun.
>> Yeah. I don't know if you remember but I
I made an app that was featured on the
launch back in 2020 AI channels
>> and it was and that was yeah the
challenge was GB3 app was very capable
but I had to write these like 600word
prompts to get it to do stuff and
because at 6 cents per thousand tokens
and the latency I'm like I don't think
this is the world for this right now.
Yes. and then GPD 3.5 and GPD4 and then
all of a sudden you see all that
capabilities and it was hard for me to
say why but then you see that all of a
sudden the things that come together and
you mentioned you know the idea of just
having you know the model be able to see
the context inside of the you know where
you're working and I remember when I was
copy pasting using chat GBT into my
workspace and it reminded me going into
a grocery store and refusing to get a
cart and just carrying everything to the
checkout I'm like this is terribly
inefficient once you put things on
wheels it works really well and I think
we're seeing all kinds of those unlocks
now.
>> Now the problem I deal with is when I
sit down to work on something is do I go
into CLI? Do I go use the VS Code
plugin? Do I go into cursor? Do I use
some other tool? And how do you guys
figure this out?
>> Right now we're still at the
experimentation phase where we're trying
different ways for you to interact with
the agent and bring it where you're
already productive. So for example,
Codex is now in GitHub. You can mention
codeex and it will do work for you. If
you do add codeex, fix this bug or move
the tests over here, it will go and like
run off and like do it with its own
little laptop, you know, on our data
centers and you don't have to think
about it. But if you're working with
files in a folder um you know then you
have that decision that are you going to
do it in your ID, are you going to do it
in terminal what we're seeing is users
are developing like power users are
developing very complex workflows with
the terminal more. Mhm.
>> And then when you're actually working on
a file or a project, you prefer to do it
in the IDE. It's it's a bit more of a
polished interface. You can undo things,
you can see the edits, you know, it's
not like just scrolling by you. And then
the terminal is just an amazing also
vibe coding tool where, you know, if you
don't really care that much about the
the code that's being produced, you
know, you can just generate a little
app. It's much more about that
interaction. It elevates the interaction
more instead of focusing on the code.
So, it's more focused on uh the the
outcome. And it just sort of like
depends on what you want to do, but it's
still very much an experimentation phase
right now and we're trying different
things out. Uh and yeah, it's going to
continue like that, I think.
>> Yeah, I I really agree with that. And I
I also think that a lot of our direction
will be more integration across these
things,
>> right? Because people are capable of
using multiple tools, right? You already
have your terminal, your browser, your,
you know, GitHub web interface, your,
you know, repo on your local machine. Um
each of these is something people have
kind of learned when it's appropriate to
reach for for what tool. And I think
that because we're in this
experimentation phase that these things
can feel very disperate and very
different and like you know you have to
kind of learn a new set of you know
skills and the affordances of of the
relevant tool. Um and I think that a lot
of as we're iterating what's on us is to
really think about how do these fit
together. And so you can start to see it
right with the codeex ID extension being
able to run remote codeex tasks. And I
think that ultimately our vision is that
there should be a AI that has access to
its own computer, its own clusters, but
is also able to look over your shoulder,
right? They can also come and help you
locally. And these shouldn't be distinct
things,
>> right? And it's like this one coding
entity that is there to help you and
collaborate with you. Like when I
collaborate with Greg, you know, I don't
complain that sometimes you're on Slack,
sometimes I talk to you in person,
>> sometimes you complain,
>> you know, sometimes you interact like
through a GitHub like review. Like this
seems like very natural when you
interact with other humans and
collaborators. And this is also where,
you know, how we're thinking about
codeex as an agentic like entity that is
really meant to just supercharge you
when you're trying to achieve things.
>> So let's talk about some of the ways of
using it like agents.md. Do you want to
explain that? Yeah, agent 7D is a set of
instructions that you can give to codeex
that lives alongside your code so that
codeex has a little bit more context
about how to best navigate the code and
accomplish the tasks. There are two main
things that are useful to put in
agents.mmd that we find is like helping
with it's like a compression thing where
it is a little bit more efficient for
the agent to just read codex.mmd instead
of like exploring the entire codebase
and then preferences that are actually
not clear in the codebase itself uh
where you would be like you know
actually tests should be over here or
you know I like things to be done in
this particular uh fashion and those two
things you know preference references
and then explaining to the agent how to
navigate the codebase effectively are
very useful things to have in agents MG.
>> Yep. And I think that there's something
deeply fundamental here of how do you
communicate to an agent that has no
context what you want, what your
preferences are and to try to save it a
little bit of the kind of spin up that a
human would require. Right? We do this
for humans, right? We write we write
readme.mds
and this is just a convention for a name
of a file that an agent should go look
at. But there's also something that's a
little point in time, right, that the
agents right now don't have great
memory, right? It's like if you're
running your agent for the 10th time,
has it really benefited from the nine
times that it went and solved a hard
problem for you? And so I think that we
have real research to do to think about
how do you have memory? How do you have
an agent that really just goes and
explores your codebase and really deeply
understands it um and then is able to
leverage that knowledge. And so this is
one of the examples and there are many
where we see great fruit on the horizon
for further research progress.
>> It's a very competitive landscape now.
There was a point where you know openi
kind of came out of nowhere for a lot of
people and all of a sudden there was
GPD3 then there was GPD4 and then uh
think anthropics building great models
and Gemini you know from Google has
gotten really good. How do you guys see
the landscape? How do you see your
placement there?
I mean, I think that there's a lot of
progress to be had. I I I I focus a
little less on the competition and a
little more on the potential,
>> right? Because, you know, we started
OpenAI 2015
thinking that AGI is going to be
possible, maybe sooner than people
think, and we just want to be a positive
force in how it plays out, right? And
that really thinking about what does
that mean? Trying to connect that to
practical execution has been a lot of
the task. And so as we started to figure
out how to build capable models that are
actually useful, right, that can
actually help people, actually bringing
that to people is this really critical
thing. And you can look at choices that
we've made along the way. For example,
releasing chat GBT and making chat GBT
free tier available widely, right?
That's something that we do because of
our mission, because we really think
about we want AI to be available and
accessible and benefit everyone. And so
in my view, the most important thing is
to continue on that exponential progress
and really think about how to bring it
to people in a positive and useful way.
Um, so I really look at where we're at
right now is that these models like
there's the GP4 class of pre-trained
models, there's reinforcement learning
on top of it to make it just much more
reliable and smart, right? It's like you
think about if you've just sort of read
the internet, right? you've just
observed a bunch of, you know, sort of
human thought and you're trying to write
some code for the first time, you're
probably going to have a bad time of it.
>> But if you've had the ability to
actually try to solve some hard code
problems, you have a Python interpreter,
you have a, you know,
access to the kinds of tools that humans
do, then you're going to be able to
become much more robust and and refined.
Um, so we now have these pieces working
together in concert, but we got to keep
pushing them to the next level. It's
very clear that things like being able
to refactor massive code bases, like no
one's cracked that just yet. There's no
fundamental reason we can't. And I think
the moment you get that um I think
refactoring code is the is one of the
killer use cases for enterprise, right?
It's, you know, if if if you could bring
down the cost of code migrations by, you
know, 2x, I think you'll end up with 10x
more of them happening. Think about the
number of systems that are stuck in
cobalt. Um and there's no cobalt
programmers being trained, right? It's
just like it's a it's strictly like you
know building liability for for the
world to have this dependency like the
only way through is by building systems
that can actually tackle that. So I just
think it's a massive open space. The
exponential continues and we we need to
to stay on that. My favorite thing today
that happened was there was a tweet from
OpenAI which was showing people how to
use the CLI to switch from the
completions API to the responses API
because it's
>> that's a great use. I expect to see more
of that. you know where you have special
instructions given to codeex in order to
go do like refactorings reliably uh and
then you just shut it off and it does it
for you. That's like a wonderful thing.
Migrations are some of the worst things.
Nobody wants to do migrations. Nobody
wants to like change from like one
library to the other uh and then make
sure that everything still works. You
know, if we can automate like most of
that, that's going to be like a very
beautiful contribution. Yeah, I I think
there's a lot of other ground as well.
Um I think that security patching is a
good example of something that I think
will become very important soon and that
that's something we're being very
thoughtful about. Um I think that being
able to actually have AIs that produce
new tools, right? You think about how
important the uh the Unix set of
standard tools has been and AIs that are
actually able to build their own tools
that are useful for you, are useful for
themselves. you can actually build up a
ladder of complexity there or utility
there to be able to just like continue
to to improve this flywheel of
efficiency. Um, AIS that are actually
really not just writing code but able to
execute,
you know, their own uh, you know, be
able to administer services or be able
to to do, you know, SR work and things
like that. Um, I think all of that is on
the horizon. It's like starting to
happen, but it's not really happening
yet in the way that we would like to
see. One big one that we cracked
internally at OpenAI and then we decided
to release it as like code review where
we started to notice that the big
bottleneck for us was with increased
amounts of code needing to be reviewed
is like the well amount of reviews
simply that uh people had to do on the
teams and so we decided to really focus
on a very high signal
codeex mode where it's able to review a
PR and really think deeply about the
contract and the intention that you know
you were you were meaning to implement
and then look at the code and validate
whether that intention is matched and
found in that code. And it's able to go
layers deep, look at all the
dependencies, think about the contract
and really raise things that some of our
best employees, some of our best
reviewers wouldn't have been able to
find unless they were spending hours
really deeply thinking about that PR. Um
and we released this internally first at
OpenAI. Uh it was quite successful and
people were upset actually when it broke
because they felt like they were losing
that safety net and it accelerated teams
and including the codeex team
tremendously. Um the night before we
released the ID extension,
one of the top engineers on my team was
like cranking out 25 PRs and we were
finding quite a few bugs automatically.
Codex was finding quite a few bugs and
you know we were able to put out an ID
extension that was almost bug free the
next day. Um so the velocity there is
incredible
>> and it's very interesting that for the
code review tool in particular people
were very nervous about having this
enabled because I think our previous
experience with every auto code review
experiment that we've tried is that it's
just noise.
>> Right? You just get an email for some
bot and you're like another one of those
things. you ignore it. And I think we've
had kind of the opposite finding from
from where we are now. And it really
shows you when the capability is below
threshold, it just feels like this thing
is like totally net negative. I don't
want to hear about it. I don't want to
see it. Once you kind of crack above
some threshold of utility, suddenly
people want it, right? And get very
upset if it gets taken away. And I think
also our observation is if something
kind of works in AI right now, one year
from now, it'll be incredibly reliable,
incredibly mission critical. And I think
that that's where we're going with code
review.
>> Part of the interesting things there
with code review as well is like
bringing humans along and really have
this be a collaborator including and
review. And one thing we thought a lot
about is like how can we raise those
findings so that you are actually
excited to read uh this finding and you
might even learn something uh including
you know when it's wrong like you know
you can actually understand its
reasoning like most of the time like
actually more than 90% of the time it's
right uh and you often learn something
uh as the person who authored the code
or someone who's helping review the
code. Yeah, just, you know, circling
back to what we were saying earlier
about the rate of progress and sometimes
stepping back and thinking about how
things were earlier. Like I remember for
GPD3 and for GPD4 really focusing on the
doubling down problem. Like do you
remember if the AI would say something
wrong and you'd point out the mistake?
>> Oh, it would yeah argue with you.
>> Oh yeah. It would try to like convince
you that the thing was right. Like we're
so far past that being the core problem.
Like I'm sure it happens in some obscure
edge cases just like it does for humans,
but it's it's really amazing to see that
we're at a level where even when it's
not quite zeroed in on the right thing,
it's highlighting stuff that matters. It
has like pretty reasonable thoughts. And
I that yeah, I always walk away from
these code reviews thinking like, huh,
okay, yeah, that that's a good point. I
should be thinking about that. We're now
just getting into the launch of GPD5
and as the recording of this podcast we
now have GP5 codeex
>> which we're tremendously excited about.
>> Very excited.
>> Why should I be excited about this
gentleman? Sell me on this.
>> So GP5 codeex is a version of GP5 that
we have optimized for Codex and we
talked about the harness and so it's
optimized for the harness. We really
consider it to be like one agent where
you couple the model very closely to the
set of tools and it's able to be even
more reliable. One of the things that
this model exhibits is an ability to go
on for like much longer uh and to really
have that grit that you need on like
these complex refactoring tasks. But at
the same time for simple tasks it's
actually comes way faster at you and is
able to reply without much thinking. And
so it's like this great collaborator
where you can, you know, ask questions
about your code, find where, you know,
this bit of piece of code is that you
need to change or like better
understand, plan, but at the same time,
once you let it go onto something, it
will work for like a very very long
period of time. We've seen it, we've
seen it work internally up to seven
hours for like very complex
refactorings. We haven't seen other
models do that before. Uh, and we also
have really worked tremendously on like
code quality. uh and it's just really
optimized for, you know, what people are
using uh GP5 within codeex for. So when
you talk about working longer and you
say worked up to seven hours, you're not
just talking about it keeps putting
things back into context that it's
actually making decisions, deciding
what's important and moving forward or
>> Yes. So imagine like a really tricky
refactoring. Um we've all had to deal
with this where you know you've decided
that your codebase is unmaintainable.
you need to make a couple of changes in
order to move forward. Um, so you make a
plan and then you let the model go. Uh,
you let CEX GP5 codeex go at it and it
will just like work its way through all
of the issues, get the test to run, uh,
get the test to pass and just completely
finish the refactoring. This is like one
of the things that we've seen it do like
for up to seven hours.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. The thing that I find so
remarkable is that the core intelligence
of these models is clearly so just like
stunning, right? I think that even 3 six
months ago, I think our models were
better than I am at navigating our
internal codebase, right? To find a
specific piece of functionality. And
that requires some really sophisticated.
>> Are you going to have to let yourself
go? Are you like, Greg, I'm sorry.
>> Because this is the thing is I get to do
more. It's like is what I want to spend
my time doing is what I want people to
know me for is like being able to find
functionality codebase. Like absolutely
not,
>> right? That's not how I define my value
as an engineer or what I want to spend
my time on as an engineer. And now I
think that that to me is the core of it,
right? That that there's this amazing
intelligence and that it can first of
all suck away all the like kind of
mundane boring parts and certainly some
of the there are some fun parts too,
right? Like you know I think that really
thinking about the architecture of
things. It's a great partner, but I get
to choose how I spend my time, right?
And I get to think about how many of
these agents do you want running on what
task, how do I break down things? And so
I view it as increasing the opportunity
surface for programmers. And you know,
I'm a I'm an Emacs user through and
through. Uh you know, I started using uh
you know, VS Code and Cursor and uh
Windsorf and these things. Um partly to
to just just try things out, but partly
because I like the diversity of of
different tools, but it's really hard to
get me out of my terminal. Wow. Um and
so, but you know, I I have found that
we're now above threshold where I really
find myself missing the like I'm like
doing some refactor. I'm like, why am I
typing this thing? Right? like, you
know, or it's like you're trying to
remember exactly the syntax for a
specific thing or like trying to to, you
know, sort of do these these are very
mechanical things. I'm like, I just want
to like have an intern go do the thing.
But I have that now in my terminal and
uh and I think it's really amazing that
we're at the point that you have this
core intelligence um and that you get to
pick and choose when and how to use it.
>> Please add Whisper to the uh you know
the extension too because now I just
love to talk to the model and tell it to
do things.
>> Yeah. Yeah. You should be able to video
chat with your model. Like I think we're
heading towards a real collaborator, a
real coworker.
>> Well, yeah, let's talk about the future.
Where do you see this headed? Where do
you see that? What's exciting about the
agentic future? How are we going to be
using these systems? We have strong
conviction that the way that this is
headed is large populations of agents u
somewhere in the cloud uh that we as
humanity as you know people, teams,
organizations like supervise uh and
steer in order to produce like great
economical value. So if we're going like
you know a couple years from now this is
what it's going to look like. It's
millions of agents working in you know
our and like company's data centers in
order to do useful work like now the
question is like how do we get there
gradually uh and how do we get to
experiment on the right form factor and
the right uh interaction patterns here.
One of the things that is incredibly uh
important to solve is the safety,
security, alignment uh of all of this so
that agents can perform useful work but
in a safe way uh and you get to always
stay in control uh as like the operator
as a human.
>> Uh and this is why for Codeex CLI the by
default the agent operates in a sandbox
um and isn't able to edit files like
randomly on your computer. Uh, and we're
going to be continuing to invest a lot
in making, you know, basically the
environment safe. Invest in like
understanding when humans need to steer,
when humans need to approve certain
actions, giving more and more
permissions so that your agent has its
own set of permissions that you know you
allow it to use and then maybe escalate
permissions when you allow it to do like
exceptionally you know more risky
things. Um and so figure out this this
entire system and then making it multi-
aent and steerable by individuals,
teams, organizations and then aligning
you know that with the whole intent of
organizations. This is where it's headed
for me. Um it's a bit nebulous but it's
also very exciting I think.
>> Yep. Yeah. I think I think that's
exactly right. I mean I think at a at a
you know zoomed in level there's a bunch
of technical problems that need to be
solved like Tibo is kind of getting at
scalable oversight, right? How do you as
a human
manage agents that are out there writing
lots of code? Right? You probably don't
want to read every line of code.
Probably right now most people do not
read all the code that comes out of
these systems. But how do you
>> Of course I do.
>> Exactly. But how do you maintain trust,
right? How do you make sure that that AI
is producing things that are actually
correct? And I think that there are
technical approaches and we've been
thinking about the these kinds of things
since probably 2017 is the first time we
published some strategies for how you
can have humans or weaker AI start to
supervise even stronger AIs and kind of
bootstrap your way to uh to making sure
that they're doing very capable
important tasks that we can maintain
trust and oversight and really be in the
driver's seat. Um, so that's a very
important problem and it really is
exemplified in a very practical way
through thinking about more and more
capable coding agents. Um, but I think
there's also other dimensions that are
very easy to miss because I think at
each level of AI capability, people kind
of overfit to what they see and think,
oh, this is AI. This is what AI is going
to be. But the thing we haven't quite
seen yet is AI's solving really hard
novel problems,
>> right? Right now you think of it as,
okay, like I need to do my refactor. you
at least have a shape of like what that
thing would be, right? It's like it'll
do a lot of the work for you, save a lot
of time, but what about solving problems
that are fundamentally unsolvable um
through any other means? And I think of
this not necessarily, you know, just in
the coding domain, but think of it in
medicine, right? You know, producing new
drugs, think of it in material science,
producing new materials that have novel
properties. And I think that there's a
lot of new sort of uh capability coming
down the pike that is going to unlock
these kinds of applications. And so, you
know, for me, one big milestone is the
first time that you have an artifact
produced by an AI that is extremely
valuable and interesting unto itself,
not because it was produced by an AI,
not because it was cheaper to produce,
but because it's simply like a
breakthrough. is simply something that
is just novel and um that the AI you
don't even necessarily have it to be
autonomously created by the AI but just
in partnership with humans and that the
AI is a critical dependency and so I
think we're starting to see signs of
life on this kind of thing. We're seeing
it in life sciences where humans ask uh
you know human experimenters ask 03 for
five ideas of experimental you know
protocols to run they try out the five
of them four of them don't work but one
of them does and the kind of feedback
that we've been getting and this was
back in the 03 days is that it's kind of
the results are at the level of what
you'd expect from like a you know third
or fourth year PhD student which is
crazy right crazy and that was 03 right
GBD5 and GBD5 pro we're seeing totally
different results there. There we're
seeing research scientists saying,
"Okay, yeah, this is doing real novel
stuff." Um, and sometimes it's again,
it's not just on its own solving these
grand theories, but it's together in
partnership being able to just stretch
far beyond where where humanistic could
go. And that to me is like one of the
critical things that we need to continue
to push on and get right. One of the
challenges I have when talking to people
kind of about the future and I want to
hear you guys talk about this is that
people tend to imagine the future is
kind of the present but with like shiny
clothes and robots and and they think
about like well then what happens when
robots do all the code and all that and
you brought up a fact like they're the
things you like to do and the things you
don't care to do. Where are we in 2030?
What does it look like? It was 5 years
ago GPD3. Now five years from now 2030
is such we didn't we didn't have these
tools six months ago. Uh, so it's hard
to picture exactly what this is going to
look like uh 5 years from now, but one
thing that
>> I'm going to pop out of the bushes five
years from now with this podcast and be
like, "You said this."
>> Well, your agent will do it for you.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's So, one thing
that's important is like
the things that are the pieces of code
that are critical infrastructure and
underpinning society, we need to like
continue to understand and have the
tools to understand. Um and this is why
also we we were thinking about code
review is like and and code review
should help you you know understand that
code and be this teammate that you know
helps you de dive into the code written
by someone else potentially helped with
AI
>> and and I would actually argue that we
already have a problem of there's lots
of code out there that is not
necessarily secure
>> right this happens all the time I
remember like heartbleleed back
>> I guess it's almost
>> 12 years ago go or something. Um,
critical vulnerability in a key piece of
software used across the internet and
you realize that that's not singular,
right? That there's lots of
vulnerabilities out there that no one
has found yet.
>> All these all these packages and stuff
from npm and all these PI packages that
are just sitting there that people put
exploits into.
>> And the way that it's always worked is
that there's a cat-and- mouse game
between attackers getting more
sophisticated, defenders getting better.
And I think that with AI, you're like,
well, maybe it's going to like which
side will advantage the most? Um, maybe
it'll just sort of accelerate this this
this cat and mouse. But I think that
there's some hope that actually you can
unlock fundamental new capabilities
through AI. For example, formal
verification
>> that are sort of an endgame for defense.
>> Mhm. And I think that that to me is very
exciting is thinking about not just how
do you continue this like you know sort
of never-ending rat race but how do you
actually end up with increased stability
increased understandability and I think
that there's other opportunities like
that for us to really understand our
systems in a way that right now it's
almost you know we're sort of at the
edge of of human human understanding of
the of the software traditional software
systems that have been built. One of the
reasons we built Codex is to improve um
the infrastructure and the code out
there in the world, not necessarily to
increase the amount of code in the
world. And so this is like a very
important point where it's also like
helping find bugs, helping refactor,
helping find more elegant, more
performant uh performant implementations
that achieve the same thing or actually
are more general but not necessarily
ending up with like a 100 million lines
of code that you know you don't
understand. One thing that I'm really
excited about is like how Codeex can
help teams, individuals, you know, just
write better code, be better software
engineers, and end up with simpler
systems that are actually doing more
things for us.
>> I think part of the 2030
outlook is we will be in a world of
material abundance, right? I think that
AI is going to make it much easier than
you could almost imagine to create
anything you want,
>> right? and that that will probably be
true in the physical world in addition
to to digital world in ways that are
hard to predict. But I think it'll be a
world of absolute compute scarcity.
>> And we've seen a little bit of what this
is like within OpenAI, right? That that
the way that different research projects
fight over compute or that the success
of the research pro program is
determined by the compute allocation is
something that is, you know, it's it's
uh it's hard to overstate, right? And I
think that we're going to be in a world
where your ability to produce and create
whatever you imagine will be limited
partly by your imagination but partly by
the compute power behind it. And so one
thing we think about a lot is how do we
increase the supply of compute in the
world right? We want to increase the
intelligence but also the availability
of that intelligence and fundamentally
it is a physical infrastructure problem
not just a software problem. I know with
GBD5 I think one thing that's quite
amazing is like we're able to give it
you know as part of the free the plus
plan uh the pro plan it's like you know
you can use codeex with your uh plus
plan you get GP5 like the same version
that everyone else gets and it's like
this incredible intelligence but the
model is also incredibly like cost
effective in that way
>> I think that was one of the things that
was really stood out for me was I
thought the model was much more capable
but it came out at the same price point
or some ways cheaper than the previous
model and that was something like wow I
mean that that patterns are great
>> I think I think the degree to which we
are improving the intelligence and
cutting prices is something that is very
easy to miss take for granted but it's
actually crazy right I think we did like
a 80% price cut on on 03 something like
that if you just look at to your point
of like 6 cents per thousand tokens back
for GPD3 level intelligence
>> yeah there was an article that came out
one of the newspapers was complaining
that well these reasoning models have
made it more expensive but they didn't
compare reasoning models to reasoning
models in like the last six to seven
months and how much more efficient
they've become.
>> Yep. And that that will just continue.
You know, on the comput scarcity point,
one thing that I find very
sort of suggestive is thinking about,
you know, right now people talk about
building big, you know, big fleets of a
million GPUs of millions of GPUs,
>> that level of of GPUs.
If we we reach a point, which is
probably not in that far future, where
you're going to want agents running on
your behalf constantly, right? Like it's
reasonable for every person to want a
dedicated GPU just for them running
their agent.
>> And now you're talking almost 10 billion
GPUs that we need. We're orders of
magnitude off of that. And so I think
that part of our job is to figure out
how to supply that compute, how to make
it exist in the world, um but how to
make the most out of the like very
limited compute that exists right now.
And uh you know that's an efficiency
problem. It's also a increase that that
intelligence problem. Um but yeah I
think it's it's very clear that bringing
this to fruition is going to be just
like a lot of work and a lot of
building.
>> So one one of the interesting things
about agents and the relationship to
GPUs and them acting is that it is very
beneficial to have a GPU also close to
you. uh because you know if when it's
acting and doing 200 tool calls over the
span of like a couple minutes it's
always is doing this back and forth
between the GPU and like your laptop and
executing those to calls getting that
context back then continuing to reflect
and so bringing GPUs like to people you
know bring GPUs close to people uh is
you know a great contribution there as
well and you know really benefits
because it reduces the latency
tremendously of the entire interaction
and the entire rollout. Gentlemen, we
get the question that comes up
periodically is about the future, about
labor, about all of this. Um, number
one, learn to code, not learn to code.
>> I think it's a wonderful time to learn
to code.
>> I think I think yeah, I agree.
Definitely learn to code, but learn to
use AI. That to me is the most important
thing.
>> There's something tremendously enjoyable
about using codeex to learn about a new
programming language. Uh, a lot of
people on my team were new to Rust. Uh
and we decided to build a core uh the
core harness in Rust. Um and it's been
it's been really great seeing like how
quickly they can pick up a new language
uh just by using codeex asking questions
exploring a codebase that they don't
know and still achieving great results.
Obviously we also have very experienced
RS engineers to continue to mentor and
you know make sure that we have a high
bar. Um but it's just a really fun time
to learn to code. I remember the way
that I learned to program was by W3
schools tutorials, PHP, JavaScript,
HTML, CSS. And I remember when I was
building some of my first applications
and I was trying to figure out how to
and I didn't even know the word for it,
serialized data, right? And I came up
with some sort of like, you know, sort
of, you know, structure that had some
special special sequence of characters
that was serving as a delimter. And what
would happen if you actually had that
sequence of characters in your data?
Like let's not talk about that. So
that's why I had to have a very special
sequence. And this is the kind of thing
where you're not going to have a
tutorial that will flag this kind of
issue for you, but will codeex in its
code review be like, "Hey, there's JSON
serialization. Just use this library."
Absolutely. And so I think that the
potential to accelerate make it so much
easier to code so you don't have to sort
of reinvent all these wheels and that it
can ask ask the question for you or
answer the question for you. You don't
even know that you needed to ask. Like
that to me is why I think it's like a
better time than ever to to to build.
I've learned a lot just by looking how
it solves a problem. Found new
libraries, found new methods and stuff.
That's often I like to sometimes give it
like a crazy task like how would you
create your own language model with only
a thousand lines of code and what would
you try to do and sometimes it might
fail but then you look at the direction
and tried to do it and you go oh I
didn't even know that was a thing. One
of the things as well is that you know
the people who are most successful
coding with AI also have really studied
like you know fundamentals of software
engineering and put the right
>> uh framework in place right architecture
have taught about how to structure their
codebase and then are you know getting
help from AI but still you know
following that general blueprint uh and
that you know really accelerates you and
allows you to go like much further than
you know you would be able to go if you
actually didn't understand the code
that's being written
>> since you've launched this since you've
made this available GPD5 since you've
been able to deploy things with codecs
what have you seen as usage rates?
>> Yeah, usage has been exploding. So,
we've seen more than a 10x growth in
usage from across users and the users
that were using it already are using it
much more as well. So, we're seeing more
sophisticated usage. Um, and people are
using it for longer periods of time as
well. uh we have now included in the
plus and pro plan with generous limits
and that's contributed a lot to being
successful.
>> Yeah, I think that the vibes I think
also have really started to shift as
people I think are starting to realize
how you need to use GPD5, right? I think
it's a little bit of a different flavor.
I think that we have our own spin on the
right harnesses and tools and the
ecosystem of how these things fit
together. And I think that once it
clicks for people, then they just go so
fast. Gentlemen, thank you so much for
joining us here and talking about this.
Any last thoughts?
>> Thank you for having us. Yeah, we're
really excited about everything that
comes next. Um, I think we have so much
to build. Progress continues on the
exponential and I think really bringing
these tools to be usable and useful by
everyone is core to our mission.
>> Yeah, thanks for having us. Uh, I'm also
super excited now that we have Codex and
it keeps improving. Uh, we're also like
getting accelerated and building better
codeex every day. And personally, I
think I spend more time talking to Codex
now than most people. And it's really
how I feel the AGI. And I hope like more
people will be able to benefit from it.